README.md, before:

# keras-on-aws

* Source code - [Github][1]
* Author - Gavin Noronha - <gnoronha@hotmail.com>

[1]: https://github.com/gavinln/keras-on-aws.git

## 1. About

This project helps to run the [Keras][10] library with [TensorFlow][20] on
a GPU instance on Amazon AWS. It uses an  [Ubuntu (16.04)][30] [Vagrant][40]
Virtual Machine (VM) with [Jupyter][50] notebooks to make it easy to run the
code.

[10]: https://github.com/fchollet/keras
[20]: http://tensorflow.org/
[30]: http://releases.ubuntu.com/16.04/
[40]: http://www.vagrantup.com/
[50]: http://jupyter.org/

Follow the **Requirements** section below for a one-time setup of Virtualbox,
Vagrant and Git before running the commands below. These instructions should
work on Windows, Mac and Linux operating systems.

## 2. Start the virtual machine

### 2.1. Start the VM

1. Change to the keras-on-aws root directory

    ```
    cd keras-on-aws
    ```

2. Create a do_not_checkin directory ignored by Git for AWS credentials.

    ```
    mkdir do_not_checkin
    ```

3. Make sure you have a new verion of Vagrant (1.9.1 or higher)

    ```
    vagrant -v
    ```

4. Start the Virtual machine (VM)

    ```
    vagrant up
    ```

5. Login to the VM

    ```
    vagrant ssh
    ```


## [3. Setup the keras-vm user on AWS](doc/setup-keras-user.md )

## 4. Setup ssh key

1. List all tasks (optional)

    ```
    ec2 -l
    ```

2. Get parameters for configure task (optional)

    ```
    ec2 -h configure
    ```

3. Setup AWS configuration

    ```
    ec2 configure /vagrant/do_not_checkin/credentials.csv
    ```

4. Set AWS default region - Ohio, US

    ```
    aws configure set default.region us-east-2
    ```

5. Display AWS identity (optional)

    ```
    aws sts get-caller-identity
    ```

5. Display AWS configuration (optional)

    ```
    aws configure list
    ```

7. Setup SSH key

    ```
    export KEY_NAME=keras-vm
    if [[ ! -s /vagrant/do_not_checkin/$KEY_NAME.pem ]]; then
        ec2 ckp --name $KEY_NAME > /vagrant/do_not_checkin/$KEY_NAME.pem
    fi
    export ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE=~/$KEY_NAME.pem
    cp -f /vagrant/do_not_checkin/$KEY_NAME.pem $ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE
    chmod 400 $ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE
    ```

8. Setup ssh-agent with key

    ```
    eval `ssh-agent`
    ssh-add $ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE
    ```

## Requirements

The following software is needed to get the software from github and run
Vagrant. The Git environment also provides an [SSH client][200] for Windows.

* [Oracle VM VirtualBox][210]
* [Vagrant][220] version 1.9.1 or higher
* [Git][230]

[200]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell
[210]: https://www.virtualbox.org/
[220]: http://vagrantup.com/
[230]: http://git-scm.com/

Commit message:

added fastai environment setup instructions

README.md, after:

# keras-on-aws

* Source code - [Github][1]
* Author - Gavin Noronha - <gnoronha@hotmail.com>

[1]: https://github.com/gavinln/keras-on-aws.git

## 1. About

This project helps to run the [Keras][10] library with [TensorFlow][20] on
a GPU instance on Amazon AWS. It uses an  [Ubuntu (16.04)][30] [Vagrant][40]
Virtual Machine (VM) with [Jupyter][50] notebooks to make it easy to run the
code.

[10]: https://github.com/fchollet/keras
[20]: http://tensorflow.org/
[30]: http://releases.ubuntu.com/16.04/
[40]: http://www.vagrantup.com/
[50]: http://jupyter.org/

Follow the **Requirements** section below for a one-time setup of Virtualbox,
Vagrant and Git before running the commands below. These instructions should
work on Windows, Mac and Linux operating systems.

## 2. Start the virtual machine

### 2.1. Start the VM

1. Change to the keras-on-aws root directory

    ```
    cd keras-on-aws
    ```

2. Create a do_not_checkin directory ignored by Git for AWS credentials.

    ```
    mkdir do_not_checkin
    ```

3. Make sure you have a new verion of Vagrant (1.9.1 or higher)

    ```
    vagrant -v
    ```

4. Start the Virtual machine (VM)

    ```
    vagrant up
    ```

5. Login to the VM

    ```
    vagrant ssh
    ```


## [3. Setup the keras-vm user on AWS](doc/setup-keras-user.md)

## 4. Setup ssh key

1. List all tasks (optional)

    ```
    ec2 -l
    ```

2. Get parameters for configure task (optional)

    ```
    ec2 -h configure
    ```

3. Setup AWS configuration

    ```
    ec2 configure /vagrant/do_not_checkin/credentials.csv
    ```

4. Set AWS default region - Ohio, US

    ```
    aws configure set default.region us-east-2
    ```

5. Display AWS identity (optional)

    ```
    aws sts get-caller-identity
    ```

5. Display AWS configuration (optional)

    ```
    aws configure list
    ```

7. Setup SSH key

    ```
    export KEY_NAME=keras-vm
    if [[ ! -s /vagrant/do_not_checkin/$KEY_NAME.pem ]]; then
        ec2 ckp --name $KEY_NAME > /vagrant/do_not_checkin/$KEY_NAME.pem
    fi
    export ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE=~/$KEY_NAME.pem
    cp -f /vagrant/do_not_checkin/$KEY_NAME.pem $ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE
    chmod 400 $ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE
    ```

8. Setup ssh-agent with key

    ```
    eval `ssh-agent`
    ssh-add $ANSIBLE_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE
    ```

## [5. Run EC2 instance](doc/aws-spot-instance.txt)

## 6. Setup fastai code

1. Change to the root directory
cd ~

2. Clone the fastai code
git clone https://github.com/fastai/fastai.git

3. Change to the fastai code directory
cd fastai

4. Create the conda gpu environment
conda env create -f environment.yml

5. Call this is needed - jupyter notebook not starting up
jupyter notebook --generate-config


## Requirements

The following software is needed to get the software from github and run
Vagrant. The Git environment also provides an [SSH client][200] for Windows.

* [Oracle VM VirtualBox][210]
* [Vagrant][220] version 1.9.1 or higher
* [Git][230]

[200]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_Shell
[210]: https://www.virtualbox.org/
[220]: http://vagrantup.com/
[230]: http://git-scm.com/
